Good afternoon.
Welcome to the penultimate session for
WWDC and the ultimate QuickTime session.
Today we're going to be
talking about next generation
video formats in QuickTime.
My name is Tim Chernia.
I'm the manager of the
QuickTime Video Foundation team.
And the QuickTime team is going
to be talking to you about H.264,
AVC, the new video codec that
we're shipping in QuickTime,
the next version of QuickTime in Tiger,
and the technologies that are required
in QuickTime to support H.264,
and as well as changes that were required
to support IPB video frame coding.
We're going to talk a lot
about what that actually is.
So you're going to see a bunch
of abbreviations in my slides,
and it'll be a little bit strange.
So let me talk about the QuickTime video
technologies before Tiger.
Basically, we have this software stack,
and at the top of the software
stack is the movie toolbox.
The movie toolbox is used for creation
and editing and navigating movies.
It's also used for playing back movies,
stepping through movies,
and so it's typically what the
highest level applications use.
Now, the movie toolbox is using the video
media handler to sequence video frames
from files or from a network device
to the image compression manager.
An image compression manager is a
service within QuickTime that deals
with compression and decompression.
And so we create these compressor
components and decompressor
components underneath the ICM,
which are created by
Apple and third parties,
and that serves as the codec model.
And there's a base codec,
a base decompressor,
which helps implement decoders.
And we recommend you actually use that,
and you'll see today that
it's actually essential for
the new decompressor formats.
So, before Tiger,
there were some limitations
in the movie toolbox and the
video media handler in ICM.
This wasn't really a big issue
because most of the codecs were
either iframe or keyframe codecs,
such as DV or motion JPEG,
or difference frame or IP coded videos,
such as MPEG-4 simple profile, CinePack,
the Sorenson codecs, etc.
What we didn't support is the
more complex frame ordering,
IPB frame ordering that's
used within H.264 and MPEG-2,
MPEG-1.
Now, we do support MPEG-1 and 2,
but that's via the MPEG media handler,
not the video media handler.
It's a different code path,
and we're not changing
that code path in Tiger.
So today we're going to
cover some fundamentals about
the new H.264 video codec,
details about what IPB is and
how it differs from I and IP.
By the end, you'll really know that.
The user level impact of the changes
that we're doing in QuickTime 6.6,
changes to the movie toolbox
for navigation editing,
and of course the changes to the ICM to
support these new kinds of video codecs.
With that, I'd like to bring up
Thomas Pun to talk about H.264.
Hi, I'm Thomas and I work in the
Video Codec team in QuickTime.
Oh, actually, back to the side first.
So today I'm going to
briefly talk about H.264.
I'm sure you guys have all heard
about it throughout the whole week.
I'm just going to recap.
So H.264, what is it?
It's a joint effort from the two biggest
organizations regarding standards.
One is the ISO and the
other one is the ITU.
They brought us video
standards such as MPAT-1,
MPAT-2, and also H.261, H.263.
Now because it's a joint
effort at different stage,
they seem to give this
codec a different name.
So you may also heard MPAT-4 Part 10,
JVT, H.264, and also AVC.
Now it's standardized in last year,
so it's a very recent addition
to the video standard.
and it has all the new technologies and
it works very well at various bitrate all
the way down to 3G all the way up to HD.
And because of that,
it has recently been chosen for one
of the video codecs for HD DVD and
also 3GPP standards as well.
And because QuickTime always stands
behind standards and it will for sure
become a new video codec in QuickTime.
and with that I'm just
going to show some demos.
Can you go to your demo machine please?
Now, as I said,
it has been recently chosen for HD-DVD,
and let's see how it
looks at HD resolution.
I have a clip here, a sender.
It's encoded at HD resolution
1280 by about 550.
And this is actually only at 6 megabit.
We couldn't really do that with
MPAT 2 at this kind of quality before.
So let's see.
I'm going to play the whole clip.
[Transcript missing]
So that's how it looks at 6 megabit.
And if you actually play
with our encoding video,
you notice at the beginning,
the sandstorm is actually
really hard to code.
And the codec does it really well.
Another demo that I'm going to show
is to give you an idea of how it
compares with existing standards.
One that I chose is MP4.
So I'm going to open this file first.
Now when we try to compare
with different standards,
we usually use three guidelines.
You fix the bit rate, you have quality,
how does the quality look,
how does the bit rate,
so one could be a lot bigger,
twice as big.
The other one is how much information
you actually pack in the stream.
So that goes with frame rate,
with resolution or frame size.
So here I have two clips,
both of them encoded at megabit.
The H.264 one is about four
times as big as the MPAT-4
one that we shipped earlier.
So I'm going to play this.
I'm just going to play a short,
about 30 seconds.
I'm going to play a movie.
So the quality is about the same,
except that the rest of
the... ♪ ♪ Thomas Sykes,
Spooner.
[Transcript missing]
We can play the whole clip later
if anyone wants to continue.
So can we get back to the slide, please?
So what makes this
codec a lot better than,
say, MPAT 4, MPAT 2 that we already have?
So here's a big table that
I'm sure some of you may have
seen it from another section.
What I really want to point
out here is three things.
The first one is there's really
not one single technology
that gives you all the gains.
It's a combination of
advances in different fields,
different technologies.
Most of the technologies that
we use in H.264 are based on
technologies that we already have,
like 10 years ago.
So we have a lot more improvement
and we know how to use the
technologies a lot better.
Second thing is I want to bring out is,
as we mentioned earlier, that,
for example, MPAT 2,
it took us a couple of years to try
to get the best out of the MPAT 2.
And H.264 is a very new standard.
It's just standardized last year.
So you should expect the quality
of H.264 stream getting better
and better once we know how to use
the tools even more efficiently.
And the last thing is,
a lot of the technologies here,
I'm not going to go over all
of them because it's boring.
But most of the technologies,
what it really means is it's
self-contained within a codec.
So your codec just have to implement it,
for example, a different transform,
different way of packing
the bits in the streams.
But there's one particular technology,
which is...
and the IPB frames,
which is the third column down.
With H.264, you have a lot more options.
It's very flexible.
You can do almost anything you want.
The simplest form is about
the same as the previous MPAC,
IBP, which we're going to explain more.
But if you really need
to take advantage of it,
then the higher layer
will require some changes,
and thus QuickTime will have to
make some structural change as well.
And that's going to bring it to an end,
which is going to talk about what changes
in QuickTime are needed to support H.264.
So how are we going to
deliver H.264 in QuickTime?
We've added four new
H.264 specific components,
a compressor/decompressor and
a packetizer and reassembler,
and made a whole lot of changes
inside the infrastructure
to support these components.
with Tiger, applications will be able
to play back H.264 content.
They can also play back H.264 streams.
And if they use the
high-level movie toolbox APIs,
they'll be able to do this
without any changes in their apps.
In addition, to QuickTime movie files,
we'll be able to store these H.264
streams in MP4 files and 3GPP files.
and the streaming realm will
fully support H.264 in that you
can play back H.264 streams,
you can take H.264 content, hint them,
put them on the QuickTime streaming
server and stream them to clients,
and you can broadcast using
QuickTime Broadcaster.
These H.264 streams are in the
standard format as defined by the IETF.
On the authoring front,
applications will be able
to edit H.264 movies,
and if they call the
high-level movie toolbox APIs,
they'll be able to cut, copy,
paste with no changes.
They'll be able to produce H.264 content
and store them in QuickTime files,
also MP4 files, 3GPP files.
So if you want to compress H.264 content,
you can do it using the
movie exporter components.
And if you call these components,
we've modified them so that they
can generate H.264 B-frame content.
Now, if you call std compression and
the ICM APIs yourself instead
of the movie exporter APIs,
then H.264 will show up as a
new item in the codec list.
However,
B-frames won't be enabled by default.
And in order to get B-frame content,
you'll have to opt in to B-frames
by calling new APIs that we'll
describe in this session.
If you call the sequence grabber
APIs and you want H.264 B-frame content,
you'll have to call std compression
and compress the frames yourself.
So what's in the seed?
With the seed,
you'll be able to play back
H.264 streams and edit them.
We've been working really hard on H.264,
but we haven't fully integrated
it into all our exporters yet.
But we really wanted to get
you something in your hands,
so we've included a
preview H.264 exporter.
It appears as a new menu
item in the exporter list,
and it does support multi-passing code.
One thing to note is that it
produces an interim format right now.
The format is guaranteed
to change before GM,
so don't produce any content that
you want to stick around for a long
time and be able to play it back,
with the seed anyway.
The APIs we talk about
today are in the seed,
so please try them out.
And a couple things, H.264,
there's a lot going on there,
so it requires a G4 or G5.
And also the seed doesn't
contain a compressor,
packetizer, or reassembler yet.
So, say you want to take advantage
of H.264 in your application.
What do you have to do and
what do you have to change?
Well, what you have to change depends on
what level of APIs you're calling.
If you're calling into the
high-level QuickTime APIs,
then chances are you don't have
to do anything in order to gain
support for H.264 in your app.
However,
if you call some of the lower-level APIs,
such as the media level,
you might or might not have to
change your application depending on
what specific APIs you're calling.
And if you access the
sample-level APIs yourself,
if you access the samples yourself,
you'll have to change your app.
So as I said,
if you call the high-level APIs,
you'll be able to gain access to
H.264 with no changes to your app.
And some examples of the
high-level APIs are the various
views that QuickTime provides,
such as the new Qt Movie View,
part of the Qt Kit,
the new HI Movie View,
and the older Carbon Movie Control.
If you use those views, you're all set.
You don't have to do anything
in order to use H.264.
If you call the movie
and track level APIs,
you'll still be able to play back,
step through the movies, edit them,
navigate through the movies
without any changes in your app.
So let's have a look at that.
Okay.
Here I have a H.264 movie
that I've compressed,
and if I drop it on the currently
shipping version of Adobe Go Live,
I can go and it opens as expected
and it plays the video as expected.
Turn to page 394.
Okay, and just for fun,
I can bring up this
timeline editor in Go Live,
and if I click around in there,
I can click around in the movie
and step around in the movie,
and that works.
I can also take this movie
into QuickTime Player,
select a portion of the movie,
go over here,
copy that small portion of the movie.
And this is the currently
shipping version of Word.
I can create a new document
and if I go and paste,
then that small section of the
movie is pasted into the document
and Word will play it back.
There's something moving out there.
It was a Dementor.
So use the high-level APIs if at all
possible because when you do that,
with each new release of QuickTime,
you'll gain a lot of new functionality
and usually you won't have to
make any changes to your app
and they'll just magically work.
Can we go back to slides?
Okay, so if you can't just call the
high-level APIs and you have to
call some of the lower-level APIs,
well,
in order to use this B-Frame content,
you might have to
change your application.
So if you're calling the
media-level APIs and you call
APIs that don't reference time,
durations, or sample flags,
then those APIs haven't changed.
You don't have to do anything.
However,
if you do make calls at that level that
reference time duration or sample flags,
it won't work with the new
B-frame content and you'll have
to change your application.
You obviously can still use those APIs.
It will still work with content
that doesn't contain B-frames,
but once you start trying
to use it with B-frames,
those APIs will return errors.
And we've added some new
errors so you know that that's
the cause of the problem.
Instead of using those older APIs,
we've added some new APIs for you to use.
If you use sample references,
then we've added a whole new
set of Qt sample table APIs,
which I'll describe later.
And for everything else,
we've added similar-looking APIs,
which I'll also describe later.
Okay,
and one last thing before Sam comes up.
I want to stress that these new APIs work
for content that contains Bframes,
but they also work for
all the other content too.
So please switch to
them whenever you can.
and here's Sam to talk about B-Frames.
- Thanks Anne.
- Thank you.
Hi, I'm Sam.
Let's talk for a moment about
video compression technology.
Lossy Video Codecs provide you with a
tradeoff between quality and bit rate.
If you want more quality,
you need to use more bits.
If you can't use so many bits,
you might have to accept a lower quality.
And we're constantly trying to improve
this quality curve and move it towards
A higher quality at a lower bit rate.
And we do this by adding more tricks.
As Thomas said, many of these tricks are
self-contained within the codec,
but some of them require
awareness outside the codec
in other parts of the system,
other modules.
And that's what we're
going to talk about.
So, suppose you had some video
that you wanted to compress.
Here's a clip of some
guy parking his car.
It's prosaic, but this is educational.
So we could encode each of
these frames independently.
If we did this, this is called spatial
compression because we're only
compressing in the spatial domain.
If every frame is self-contained,
we call it key frames,
we call it sync samples,
we call them iframes.
I stands for intra.
Random access is fast, which is good,
but the data rate isn't so good.
Because if we're compressing
everything independently,
we're not taking advantage of
the similarities between frames.
I've got frames 4 and 5 of the
previous 6 on the screen here,
and you can see that the tree and the
building are practically the same.
And the car has moved a little,
but it's mostly the same.
So we can improve compression performance
substantially by using one frame as
the basis for describing another frame.
And the jargon for this in codec
terminology is temporal prediction.
The way it works is you start
off by saying these are the
areas of the new frame that are
similar to areas of the old frame.
For example,
in the example that I've got here,
we're describing frame
5 in terms of frame 4.
So first,
in the yellow parts of the screen,
we're saying these pixels are more
or less the same as the pixels
in the same location in frame 4.
And then the green part,
that's where we're saying these pixels
are like the frames if you just move
over so many pixels to the right.
But these are only first approximations.
There's still a fix-up that has to be
added because the wheel is turning and
the reflection doesn't move with the car.
It sort of seems to stay in place.
And so you can see that
there's an additional image
that must be added as well.
This is called the residue.
The first part is called
motion compensation and the
fix-up is called the residue.
And you'll notice that there's a
strip of that car that is in frame
five that wasn't there in frame four.
And this part might need
to be coded from scratch,
encoded from scratch.
So this is what we get if we
encode the last five frames out of
those six as a motion compensation
piece and then a residue.
We call these difference
frames or P frames.
P stands for predicted.
Well, we get better compression because
motion compensation can be described
extremely compactly relative to
describing something from scratch.
And as a result, the bit rate that we get
is a whole lot better.
There's something else that's
worth paying attention to here,
which is that each of these frames
The encoded frame can only be interpreted
with reference to the previous one,
which means each frame in a way
depends on the previous one.
If you want to
Decode and display the last frame
in this sequence and you haven't
decoded the previous frames,
well you better go and
do that right away.
So random access into a sequence like
this could be somewhat expensive.
So when we have iframes and pframes,
or keyframes and difference frames,
This is what it's like.
We call it IP for I frames and P frames.
And it gives you much better
compression than I frames only,
but random access can be somewhat slower.
For example,
if the key frame rate is 20 frames,
you might have to decode 20
frames before you can display
the one that you want to see.
Another thing to pay attention to
is that gradually appearing images
are constructed incrementally,
like the car in this clip.
The image of the car that you see
in frame six was constructed out
of strips in five different frames.
This might not be the most
efficient way of doing things.
So let's introduce an alternative.
What if we encode the first frame
in that sequence as an iframe,
self-contained,
and then go all the way to the
end and encode frame 6 as a
pframe based on that iframe?
Well, if we'd done that first,
then we can encode all the frames in
between using motion compensation,
part from the previous frame,
that's the yellow piece,
and part from the later frame,
which is the blue piece.
And you can see that these frames are
almost entirely motion compensation.
Very little residue to encode.
Here's what it looks like
if we encode our six frames,
which with all of the four frames
in the middle encoded as B frames,
which stands for
bidirectional prediction,
based on the frames at the end.
Again,
these four frames in the middle are
almost entirely motion compensation.
and another thing to notice about them is
that random access can be a bit faster.
For any of the frames in the middle,
starting from scratch,
if you needed to display those,
you only need to decode three frames,
the one at the beginning,
the one at the end and
the one in the middle.
So these are B-frames.
They refer to information in a
future frame as well as perhaps
information from a previous frame.
And the good news about B-frames
is that they let us enhance
the compression quality,
lower the bitrate even further.
There's two benefits.
You get better compression,
especially when objects appear gradually,
for the reasons that we've described.
And also, random access is faster.
As I illustrated,
accessing any of those frames,
the worst case for random access
is having to decode three frames.
Another example to think about is
if you're playing in fast forward.
You could skip the frames you didn't
need to display if they were B frames.
You wouldn't have to decode them at all.
The jargon for this is
temporal scalability.
But there's something
tricky about B-frames.
The decoder that's displaying these
can only use motion compensation
from frames that's already decoded.
If one of those frames is
going to be displayed later,
then that means the order in which
frames are decoded and the order in
which frames are displayed is different.
So the frames have to
be reordered somewhere.
And this reordering is why
your application might need
to understand B-frames.
So some of you have been working
with IPB codecs for some time
and this is no news to you.
But I wanted to speak to you guys for
a moment because there's an important
point that I want to drive home.
With some other IPB codecs,
you can implement playback using
a small finite state machine,
which is driven with different
transitions for iframes,
pframes, and bframes.
And this works for MPEG-2 because
only one frame can be held at a time.
There's only one future frame
that would ever need to have
been decoded but not displayed.
And this is not true for H.264.
The standard for H.264 allows up
to 16 future frames to be held.
In fact,
H.264 allows the encoder an enormous new
amount of flexibility in how it chooses
to find material for motion compensation.
P and B frames can depend
on up to 16 frames.
Not all iframes reset
the decoder completely.
We have a new tag for those.
The name in H.264 is IDR frames,
which stands for
Instantaneous Decoder Reset,
if you care.
Some B-frames can be used to provide
material for motion compensation,
so not all B-frames can be skipped.
And some I-frames and P-frames
can be skipped because they don't
count for motion compensation.
So, as on the left,
you can see that the pattern for
MPEG-2 is fairly regular and,
in fact, you can entirely derive
The dependency graph of the frames,
just knowing the frame letters,
and that's how the finite
state machine works.
Everything can be worked
out from the frame letters.
But with H.264, the encoder is free to do
things in a much wilder way
and just knowing those letters,
those frame letters,
doesn't let you derive the graph.
In fact, as you can see,
I didn't know that you'd really
want to try and store that graph
unless you were the decoder itself.
So.
The new rules,
if you want to work in H.264,
it's no longer sufficient to use
the frame type letters to derive
frame dependency information
and the dependency graph.
Instead,
you should pay attention to four things.
First is a frame of
synchronization sample.
Not all iframes are sync samples.
This is because an iframe may not,
if you decode an iframe,
that may not prime the decoder
with all of the motion compensation
material that it'll need in
P and B frames that follow it.
So instead,
you only want to pay attention to
whether a frame is a sync sample,
which is equivalent in the
new world to an IDR frame.
Number two is a frame droppable.
Now some B frames are not
droppable and some INP frames are.
And that's the information that
if you're outside of the codec
that you really want to know.
You want to know whether you
need to decode that frame in
order to get random access.
Number three.
What order must the frames be decoded in?
And sometimes it's also sensible to
include information about what time
the frames should be encoded at,
decoded at.
Number four, what time should each
frame be displayed at?
And this is how we know how
the frames are reordered.
to summarize.
Dependencies between
frames are getting weirder,
but it's all in the cause of improving
the quality versus bit rate trade-off.
Number two, IPB means someone needs to
know about frame reordering,
and if you work with
the compressed media,
it could be you.
and three, some of the convenient rules,
things like the one frame delay
and the ability to build this
little finite state machine,
although they're okay for MPEG-2,
they don't hold for H.264.
Back to Anne.
So what changes did we have
to make in the movie toolbox
in order to support B-frames?
Well,
first we had to change the file format.
For those of you who care
and parse the files yourself,
we've added four new tables in the
QuickTime files when there's B-frames.
One other thing to note is that samples
are stored in the files in decode order.
Now, they've actually always been stored
in the files in decode order,
but decode order and display
order were always the same before,
so you couldn't tell the difference.
We've added a bunch of new
APIs to distinguish between decode
time and display time because,
as Sam explained, with B-frame content,
they're not necessarily the same anymore.
and some of those APIs take
something called a display offset.
And a display offset is simply
just the difference between the
decode time and the display time.
And just note that sometimes
display offset is a negative number.
Okay, so for example,
where you used to call
sampleNumToMediaTime,
if you're processing B-frame content,
that call is going to return an error.
So instead of calling that,
you should call either
sampleNumToMediaDisplayTime
or sampleNumToMediaDecodeTime,
and which one you call depends on
which time it is that you want.
We've added a whole bunch of new
sample flags and increased the
size from 16 bits to 32 bits.
Most of them are optional,
but the main one that you need to
know about is media sample droppable,
which usually but not
always indicates a B-frame.
If you need to know whether a movie
or track contains B-frame content,
don't hard code in if track is encoded
with H.264 because not all H.264
movies necessarily contain B-frames.
And we might add new codecs in
the future that use B-frames.
So instead,
call MediaContainsDisplayOffsets.
Okay,
so if you're using sample references,
we've added a whole new set of APIs,
the Qt Sample Table APIs,
for you to work with these.
Qt Sample Tables represent media
sample references in a movie.
They're reference-counted,
so use retain and release,
similar to other Apple APIs.
And you can use these
APIs for all media types,
so audio, video, text, et cetera,
not just video and B-frames.
are working on a new model in order
to get sample references out of
a movie called Copy Media Mutable
Sample Table to get the sample table.
From that, you can get the number
of samples in there,
and then you can index
through the samples and get
information about each sample,
such as data offset, sample flags,
a whole bunch of things.
And these samples are in decode order,
same as stored in the files.
In order to add sample
references to a movie,
call QTSampleTableCreateMutable
to create an empty sample table,
and then add your sample references
to the sample table similar to the
old addMediaSampleReference call.
And when you're done,
call addSampleTableToMedia to actually
add the sample references to the movie.
We've also included a whole bunch
of more advanced sample table APIs,
so if these aren't quite what you need,
you could have a look in the
headers in the documentation to
see if what we've provided helps.
And here's Sam to talk
about changes in the ICM.
I'm still Sam.
So Anne's explained that if
you call high-level APIs,
you might not need to worry
about B-frames because they might
not make a difference for you.
But if you write the kind of
application that deals with
compressed frame data yourself,
or if you write a codec,
then there's no hiding this
information from you and you
wouldn't even want to anyway.
So let's talk about how the APIs at
this layer might need to make -- well,
how they've been changed
to support B-frame codecs.
There are three things that are
missing from the current APIs in
order to support B-Frames.
Frame reordering, new frame information
like the droppable flag,
and multiple buffers in flight at once.
The Image Compression
Manager provides APIs both for
compression and decompression.
It provides high-level client
APIs and also defines the
interface to decompressor and
compressor components underneath.
Let's go through each of these in turn.
In Tiger, we're introducing a new
multi-buffer API for compression.
We're also extending the existing
GWorld-based decompression
API to support B-Frames.
And we're introducing a new
multi-buffer decompression session API.
These new multi-buffer APIs are
based on core video pixel buffers.
Underneath,
we're introducing a new multi-buffer
API for compressor components,
and we have extended the decompressor
component API to support B-frames.
So if you write code that
works at any of these levels,
then you'll want to look at this stuff.
[Transcript missing]
The existing GWorld-based
API is one frame in,
one frame out.
What this means is that the compressor
has to give you back the compressed
data for frame one before it'll
get the image data for frame two.
This makes it really
difficult to reorder frames.
Also,
The current compression API is
almost completely unaware of time.
The new compression session
API is based on core video pixel
buffers instead of GWorlds.
If you're using a new
style compressor component,
a B-frame aware compressor,
then multiple buffers
may be in flight at once.
This allows the compressor to reorder
the frames in order to encode B-frames.
It also allows the compressor
to have a look ahead window
for better rate control.
Timestamps can flow all the way
through the compression chain.
And the new API supports
multi-pass encoding.
So whereas in the previous API,
with the GWEL-based compression API,
you draw each frame into the same buffer,
and then each time you'd pass
that buffer off to the ICM.
With the new API, you take a fresh
Core Video Pixel buffer each time,
put your source frame in it,
and then pass that over to
the compression session.
And it'll retain those
until it's done with them,
and then it'll release them.
So you can release the buffer
as soon as you've passed it
to the compression session.
So this uses standard retain
and release semantics.
And you could just allocate
these each time if you wanted.
But mapping and unmapping these
large pieces of virtual memory
that you use for pixel buffers--
can involve some memory
management overhead,
and that can be somewhat expensive.
So we have a pixel buffer pool as part of
Core Video that does efficient recycling.
So this is how reordering happens.
You push source core video
pixel buffers in display order.
and the session will call a callback
function that you provide with the frames
that have been encoded in decode order.
The session will also call you when
it's releasing those pixel buffers,
so you can perform your own frame
buffer recycling if you want.
In some cases,
you might not want the compressor to
hang onto too many frames at a time.
Perhaps you're a networked application,
like a video conferencing application,
and there's a maximum latency
before you have to send those
frames out over the network.
Well, in those cases,
you can set a maximum number of
frames that the compressor is
allowed to hang onto at once,
and you can also make an explicit
request that forces the compressor
to finish encoding the frames
that it's currently hanging onto.
Their new compression session
API has a bunch of other features
that make it a big jump forward.
It's easier than before to
add encoded frames to a movie.
You can use the fixed or
flexible GOT pattern if you
know what a GOT pattern is.
It's not politics, don't worry.
You can set a CPU time budget.
You can set data rate limits.
And as I said before,
it supports multi-pass encoding.
In fact, the movie exporter that's
in the Tiger seed supports
multi-pass encoding as well.
In the final version of Tiger,
the compression session API will be
compatible with existing compressors,
but no B-frames will be generated.
However,
in the Tiger seed that you've got,
it's not yet compatible
with existing compressors.
And also,
we don't have an H264 compressor.
So it would be a good idea to try
and get on our seed program if you
want to try and exercise this API.
What's next?
Let's talk about what's underneath
the compression session API,
which is the new compressor
component interface.
New style compressor components still
use the four character code IMCO,
but they support three new
component calls for B-frames.
And if you want to opt in
for multi-pass support,
there's three more
APIs to implement as well.
Let's also talk for a
moment about decompression.
There's two flavors of decompression
API that we have in the GWELD-based mode.
We have synchronous APIs,
and these are all one frame in,
one frame out.
We also have a second
mode for decompression,
which is called Scheduled Decompression.
And with scheduled decompression,
you can queue multiple frames,
each of which with a frame time.
And when that time arrives,
the frame is triggered and
we decode it and display it.
With B-Frames, as we've gone through,
the decode order and the
display order can be different.
In fact, you may need to decode several
frames before you come to
the first frame to display.
So immediate one-frame-in,
one-frame-out APIs aren't a good match.
Let's look at the example of the
little clip of that car parking.
In the decode case,
the first frame happens to be the first
frame both to display and to decode.
So we decode it and then we display it.
But the second frame in
decode order doesn't need to
be displayed until time 60.
But it does need to be decoded before
the next frame in decode order,
which is the frame at time 20.
and it needs to be decoded
before the frame after that,
which is at time 30,
and the one at time 40,
and the one at time 50.
After that, it's okay for that frame
to be displayed at time 60.
The new model for doing
decompression is that you always
queue frames in decode order.
And then you provide the display
timestamps so that we know how
the frames should be reordered.
As before, frames can be scheduled
against a time base,
in which case the frames will
automatically be output according to that
time base when that trigger time happens.
But we have a new mode called
non-scheduled display times.
In which case,
there's no time base and you have to
make an explicit call to the ICM to say,
"I would like this frame back."
You can also optionally
supply decode timestamps,
which are a hint saying this
is when it would be a good
time to decode that frame.
So many of you will have
loops in your code where you
[Transcript missing]
Like I've been saying, immediate mode,
one frame in, one frame out,
is very awkward for B frames,
at least if you want to get the
frames out in display order,
which is the order that
makes sense to the user.
So we need to enhance this a bit.
So here we have an outer
loop and an inner loop.
The outer loop queues
frames in decode order,
and the inner loop retrieves
frames in display order.
So frames go in in decode order and
you pull them out in display order.
And there may not be a
one-to-one correspondence,
so that's why we have the
outer loop and the inner loop.
The inner loop isn't going
to be run many times.
I'll show you in a second.
One other thing,
because you're queuing multiple frames,
you need to load them
into multiple buffers.
These aren't called video pixel buffers,
these are just data buffers.
And the ICM will call you back to
say when it's time to release those
because the codec no longer needs them.
You can do this both with
the existing GWeld API,
and we've also introduced this new
multi-buffer core video pixel buffer
based API called Decompression Sessions.
Now the Decompression Session API does
not support any drawing operations.
It doesn't do clipping.
It doesn't do matrix transformations.
It doesn't do transfer modes
or any of that other guff.
Instead, it just gives you the buffers
in the format you want.
There's a flavor of this API that
supports sending the buffers
directly to a visual context.
And there's one that just
gives you the buffers back.
So, let's do a demo.
Wake up!
[Transcript missing]
So I have a little clip here.
I like the Harry Potter trailer,
and I clipped out a little
bit of it in the middle.
It's not very long.
It plays in display order.
See, everything's moving forward.
The bus is moving down the road.
QuickTime Player has not been
revised to understand B-frames.
So like Anne said,
If you're using the high-level APIs,
you don't need to change.
What's more,
I'm going to step through this
by pressing the arrow key,
and you notice that the
frame is moving forward.
So what's happening here is we are
telling the movie to move forward
to new movie times and rendering
the frame for each of those times.
If you do that in your application,
if you step through with something
like setMovieTime and moviesTask,
if appropriate,
then you don't need to worry.
You'll get the frames
out in display order.
Everyone will be happy.
and David Schreiber.
That's a great sound.
But this movie does have B-frames.
The frames are being reordered.
I have a copy of Dumpster here.
It's great when we get to demo Dumpster.
Many of you will know what Dumpster is.
Some of you won't.
Dumpster is a tool that shows you the
internal structure of movie files.
Actually of the movie header.
Not the place where the
media compressed data is,
but the movie header itself.
And we've modified Dumpster,
this version of Dumpster,
to show you the new B-frame
tables that Anne was mentioning.
You probably can't see the details,
so I'll just pop them open so you can...
take my word that they're there.
There's a piece of information here that
tells you the size of individual frames.
These are numbers varying
between 40 and 80 kilobytes.
It also stores the timing information.
Each of these frames
has a duration of 1,000.
And this is from film,
so the speed is more or
less 24 frames per second.
And so the time brace here
is something around 24,000.
and each frame has the same duration,
1000.
We also now store,
this is a new table for Tiger,
you also store the display
offsets and you probably can't
see but the first one is zero,
the next one is a thousand,
then minus a thousand, then a thousand,
then minus a thousand.
What does this mean?
Well,
if you think about the durations which
are now interpreted as decode durations,
the frames are at times zero, 1000, 2000,
3000 and we add the display times,
we add the display offsets
to those to find the display
times and we'll see zero,
2000, 3000, 2000, 3000.
2000, 1000.
These first,
the second two frames are reordered,
they're exchanged in pairs.
And the same for the next one.
So,
Here's the difference between the
decode order and the display order.
I'm an adopter.
Here's the difference between the
decode order and the display order.
I'm an adopter.
Here's the difference between the
decode order and the display order.
I'm an adopter.
[Transcript missing]
This is a little command line
tool which was included in the
disk image for this session.
It's a command line tool that steps
through a movie and does that new
kind of loop that I was describing.
It calls the new decompression
session API to decode each frame
into a core video pixel buffer.
And it takes command line arguments.
I've made it scale the frame down.
It's so big there's not a lot
of space for the debugger.
And it also takes a command
online path to the movie file.
So let's try it out.
I'm pausing in between the frames so that
you can see them so they don't race past.
Wasn't there something odd there?
Did you see that?
I'll play it again.
and Harry Potter.
Where did he come from?
He wasn't there when we opened
this movie in QuickTime Player.
What's going on?
Well,
This little tool is going down to
the media layer of the movie and it's
accessing the sample table directly.
But when you do that,
you're circumventing the higher
layers and at the track layer
there's a thing called the edit list.
And when I cropped that little piece out,
copied and pasted it
out of the longer movie,
I had edited out the
frame of Harry Potter.
But it's still inside that sequence
of frames at the media layer.
So we're going around the edit list.
If we wanted to make the movie,
set through the movie in
the same way that it appears
to someone who's using it,
then it would look-- we'd have
to put a bit more code that would
have to walk through the edit list.
Or an easy way would be to do that,
what I did with the arrow keys,
stepping through the movie.
So briefly, let's have a look at
this in the debugger.
will talk a little bit about
this code and see how it works.
So we're doing some things that aren't
very special about B-frame movies,
and I'll skip over those.
We are opening the movie.
We are getting the video track,
we're getting the image description,
and then we're making a window that's
the scale size of that image description.
There's the window in
the background there.
Nothing big yet.
Then we're making a
decompression session.
I want to show you this.
Local variables, love them.
So we're creating a pixel
buffer attributes dictionary.
This is how we're describing the kinds
of pixel buffers we'd like to get
back from the decompression session.
And we give it the width and height
that we'd like it to give us buffers in,
because we would like them to be a
specific width and a specific height.
Local variables, love them.
So we're creating a pixel
buffer attributes dictionary.
This is how we're describing the kinds
of pixel buffers we'd like to get
back from the decompression session.
We also pass a callback when we're
creating the decompression session.
This callback is called with
the encoded pixel buffers.
There's no GWorld here.
The callback is called with
a fresh buffer for each time,
and when you release them,
they can be -- go back into
the pool that the ICM is using
to recycle pixel buffers.
That tracking callback is also
called when we want to recycle,
when the data buffers can be recycled.
Okay,
so now we've got a decompression session,
but nothing's been decoded into it.
Now we've got to have a look at the
media and pull out those frames.
We get the number of samples
in the media and we allocate
some storage for each of them.
Now here's the first
interesting question.
What's the first frame
that we want to display?
Well, we're starting at time
zero in display time,
but that might not be the
same as the first frame,
so we need to go and do a mapping,
and this is calling a new API in Tiger.
Previously we'd call media time to
sample them to get this information,
but now we need to specify which
kind of time we want to talk about,
so it's media display
time to sample them.
and I think I have debug tools.
Expressions, aha,
my little expressions window.
Some of these variables
are uninitialized.
So you can't see this,
but I'm telling you that
number in red is one.
So that's the next sample
number we want to display.
That's also the first sample
that we're going to decode.
That's just like the...
as we saw it in dumpster.
OK.
So we're approaching the outer loop here.
The outer loop queues
frames in decode order.
That's just ascending
numbers in sample time.
So we use plus plus to
get to the next one.
So we translate that sample number
to a decode time so that we can
get the size of that sample.
We allocate some storage.
We load it into that storage.
Along the way,
we have found out what the decode
time and display offset are.
And we add those to find out
the display time for that frame.
And now we have enough
information to queue that frame
with the decompression session.
And we hand it to the ICM,
and nothing happens yet.
Nothing happens because we're using this
new mode where you pass display times
and they're non-scheduled.
There's no time base.
They're not going to come out
until we ask for them back.
So the next question is, well,
have we enqueued the frame
that we need to get out?
And so we just compare these two numbers.
We've queued sample one,
and we want to get back sample one.
So yep, let's go into the inner loop,
where we retrieve
samples in display order.
And we do that by saying,
here's the non-scheduled
display time that I would like
to get the frame back for.
And there's the frame.
Hooray!
And we do that by saying,
here's the non-scheduled
display time that I would like
to get the frame back for.
And there's the frame.
Hooray!
But that's frame three.
So let's go around this loop again.
I've got a break point here.
So the next thing that we decode is--that
we schedule for decode is frame two.
And now we've queued frame two,
but we want frame three,
so we have to go around again.
We'll skip over the inner loop
and come back to the outer loop.
We'll enqueue frame three,
and then we'll ask back for frame three,
which is in the queue now.
And here we go.
The bus will move a bit.
Or the road will move.
I guess we're in the bus.
And the next time is 2000,
and that's frame two.
So remember this order?
We're going through the
frames in display order,
thanks to the Get Media Next interesting
display time and so forth.
We're going through these
frames in order one,
three, two, five, four, seven, six.
So as we go through,
we're going to get back frame two now.
So OK, big deal.
We carry on in this pattern.
Because the frames are
exchanged in pairs,
we'll queue two frames and
then retrieve two frames,
and then we'll queue two
frames and retrieve two frames.
And it's going to carry on like this.
I'll clear that breakpoint
and just continue.
And in fact,
Here's us going through
the rest of the frames.
And here's Harry Potter.
Great note to end on.
Okay, so one more thing.
It's not like a Steve one more thing,
I'm sorry.
We've enhanced the decompression
component interface to support B-frames.
This is all based on
the Base Decompressor.
We introduced the Base Decompressor
six years ago in QuickTime 3.
It's been helping you write video codecs.
The Base Codec helps by...
Implementing the queue that
holds the scheduled frames.
and now it'll also help you with
frame reordering for B-frames.
The new rules for
B-frame-aware decompressors,
if you want to write one yourself,
you opt in in your initialized
function by setting a flag.
You classify frames in
your begin band function,
which means that you say whether
the frame is a key frame,
a difference frame or a
droppable difference frame.
It's always been a good idea to do this,
but for B-frames it's mandatory.
Third, we've split the work in
the drawband function.
This used to be where both
decode and display happened,
and now we've separated those,
and decode happens in the
decode band function and display
happens in the drawband function.
And only one of those will get called
if we just need to decode the frame in
order to prime it inside your decoder.
Final note,
and this is not just for B-frame codecs,
but in fact any codec that wants
to work in QuickTime Player now,
don't cache the Pixmap
base address in Begin Band.
It might change between
Begin Band and Draw Band.
and then you draw in the wrong place.
So these are the new APIs that we've
provided in the Image Compression
Manager for multi-buffer
support and for B-frame support.
There's a video track
movie exporter in the seed.
I encourage you to try it.
I encourage you to try out the new
APIs that exercise that because the
new APIs will work with the B-frame
stuff and you'll see how that works.
Also,
exercise your application and examine
whether your application needs revising
in order to cope with B-frame content.
I want to give you one
small warning about one bug,
because it's likely to bite
you and I'm a kind guy.
The bug is this.
The Video Track Movie Exporter
only creates video tracks.
It doesn't copy the soundtrack.
So it's likely that you're going
to want to go and extract the
soundtrack and paste it into the
new movie with the add command so
that they're next to each other.
If you do that, save the movie but don't
save it self-contained.
And save as self-contained is now the
default in the new QuickTime player.
Carefully switch it back to
save a reference or what used
to be called save normally.
The reason for this is that when
you save a movie self-contained,
we do a thing called
interleaved flattening.
We interleave half-second
chunks of audio and video.
And the code that does this,
it's got a bug that doesn't do the
right thing for H.264 and you end up
with movies that won't play properly.
They're not going to cause any harm,
they just won't play right.
So avoid saving those
movies self-contained.
So, more information.
Both on the CD, the DVD,
and on the net at connect.apple.com
you can download a bunch
of documentation for this.
There's a "What's New in QuickTime 6.6"
document in -- it's the big 60
megabyte tiger documentation.
Download it here while Apple's
paying for the bandwidth.
and others.
Also download the disk
image for this session.
You can go to connect.apple.com,
log in and click download software
and see what's new and it'll be there
under the developer's conference stuff.
The API reference won't be
updated until Tiger goes final.
And one more thing.
It's another dull one more thing.
Just around the back here in the
hands-on lab for the QuickTime
for the Graphics and
Media and QuickTime Lab.
We have a special extended
hands-on lab time so that you can
talk to me and other folks about
IPB and about visual contexts.
And that's starting more or
less right after this session.
And that'll go until 6.30 and they'll
be tearing down everything else.
But they're going to let us stay in
the room so that we can help you.
So come along.
Also seeding.
You've got the Tiger seed.
It's possible that we'll do
a further QuickTime seeds.
If you would like to be
involved in such seeds,
please send an email with your name,
company, product, technology interest to
QuickTimeSeed at Apple.com.
I have some reminder cards.
I have some reminder cards
that I can give you if you
come and see me after this.
Or you can contact your
friendly evangelist.